From joany@MIT.EDU Tue Sep 24 11:58:34 2002
Date: Mon, 23 Sep 2002 12:30:28 -0400
From: joany@MIT.EDU
Subject: trip report: intro circus, a newbie's perspective

Hi everyone!  I just wanted to let everyone know about the trip I just took 
with MIT OC , the Intro Circus.  This is my first year at MIT, and I must say 
that at first everything can be very overwhelming.  Well, I decided to leave 
the work here and go to New Hampshire with MITOC.  It was an awesome trip that 
completely changed my attitude.  

We arrived Friday night and started the trip with a campfire and a meeting for 
the trips planned for Saturday.  They offered hiking and rock climbing for all 
levels.  Saturday, I went on a hiking trip.  We hiked to a lake, along a 
streambed, and to an isolated pond.  It was absolutely gorgeous and truly 
peaceful.  I loved being in nature, away from work.  I really got to know the 
people in my hiking group. They were great; we helped each other through 
difficult situations.  Because I recently had surgery on my shoulder, I needed 
assistance on some of the more difficult sections of the trail.  I had more 
help from the others on the hike than I could^Òve possibly needed.  I returned 
to the MITOC cabin Saturday evening, exhausted physically but rejuvenated 
emotionally.  Saturday night consisted of a big bar-b-que and games.  Then 
Sunday there were more trips, again for all levels.  I again chose to go 
hiking.  This time there were even more breathtaking views with less physical 
effort, it was a nice follow-up to the previous day.

Overall, on the trip I met extraordinary people, with whom I think I will keep 
in touch and become good friends.  I enjoyed days and nights in nature.  And I 
returned with a great attitude, ready to face the world.  I strongly recommend 
making time and going on one of the MIT OC trips.


