Subject: Trip Report: Lonesome Lake 1/8/00
Date: Mon, 10 Jan 2000 12:11:48 -0500
From: "Matthew T. Reagan" <reagan@MIT.EDU>


Lonesome Lake, January 8, 2000
------------------------------

Hikers: Matt, Sebastian, Philip, Melissa, Daniel, Richard, Theresa,
Adrianne, Paul, Susan, and Simon

How often do you get calm, clear weather for a hike in the Whites?  We
got very lucky on Saturday, which was so sad for those who had to bail
out due to the influenza outbreak.  

A few low clouds and flurries filled Franconia Notch as we drove up
I-93 for a short, basic winter day hike to the Lonesome Lake area.
After bundling up in our official MITOC-sanctioned synthetic outfits,
we headed up the Lonesome Lake trail under clearing skies.  Our first
uphill climb required multiple strip-stops, as several people learned
the benefits of layering through trail and error.  Despite a 15F
thermometer reading, steaming polyester was the fashionable thing in
the dry, still air.  

The trail conditions were quite good, with the previous week's ice
covered by 3-5 inches of soft, dry snow.  We reached the east end of
the frozen lake in perfect guidebook time, then circled past the AMC
hut and through the frozen bogs and beaches on the south and west
shores.  Aside from a cloud-cap over the Lafayette and Lincoln
summits, we had plenty of sun for photos and warmth.  We stopped in
the large clearing on the north side of the lake for lunch (with hot
water for everyone--don't leave home without your Whisperlite!) and
more group photos.  The temperature held in the low 20s, but everyone
was dressed well enough to stay reasonably warm and dry during what
turned into a forty-minute picnic.

Refreshed, we located the Dodge Cutoff and headed up the steep
Hi-Cannon trail for better views and some practice with steeper
terrain.  The snow was deeper above the lake, which helped us get by
without crampons (not that mouse boots were ideal for this job), and
the workout gave everyone a chance to work out the critical details of
winter trail travel.  We quit just below the Cliff House overlook due
to a seriously icy stretch, but still got tremendous views across the
Notch from the lower Hi-Cannon ledges.

Note: the trail sign listing 0.6mi from Lonesome Lake to Cliff House
is inaccurate.  I believe the new guidebook lists it at more like a
mile-plus, which matches our experience (70 min of steep climbing).

For the descent, we worked on our soft- and hard-snow glissade
technique, ski pole self-arrest, conifer self-arrest, and found
creative ways to test the "fleece is warm when wet" concept.  We now
have conclusive proof that the last person in line slides much faster
than the first, that a lumpy snow surface indicates submerged rocks
and logs, and that it's best to slide to either side of small shrubs
rather then using a bush-between-the-legs braking technique.  We
arrived at the cars well before sunset, with alpenglow on the
Franconia Ridge as a final bonus.

We finished the day with dinner at Woodstock Station in North
Woodstock (1/2 price appetizes 3pm-5pm!).  Thanks to everyone who came
out for a great day!  I'll put scanned pictures up for download
sometime next week.

-Matt
http://www.mit.edu/~reagan/outdoor.html

Photos:
<a href="http://www.mit.edu/~reagan/images/llake-trailhead.jpg">Trailhead</a>
<a href="http://www.mit.edu/~reagan/images/llake-kinsmans.jpg">Kinsman's</a>
<a href="http://www.mit.edu/~reagan/images/llake-group.jpg">Lake Group</a>







